# How to install 
The installation comport two parts. The first one is to deploy the backend chart into Rancher `local` cluster.  
The second part is to deploy the UI extension.

## Pre-requisite

A `local` cluster with:

- 6+ vCPUs
- 8+ GB of Rams

## Deploy the chart

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> You have to deploy the chart in `suseai` namespace.  
> You can create the namespace at the chart deployment step 9

1. Click on the `local` cluster
2. Go to `Apps` -> `Repositories`
3. Click on `Create` to add the repository
4. Configure the repository:
    * **name**: rancher-ai-assistant
    * **target**: Git repository containing Helm chart or cluster template definitions
    * **index URL**: https://github.com/jp-gouin/rancher-ai-extension.git
    * **Git Branch**: `main`
5. Click `Create`
6. Go to `Chart`
7. Click on `rancher-ai-assistant`
8. Click on `Install`
9. Set the namespace to `suseai`
10. Fill the unique parameters
    * **Rancher public API URL**: Copy the Rancher public URL without the leading `/` e.g `https://rancher.rd.localhost`
11. Click on `Install`

## Deploy the UI Extension

1. Open the Rancher Manager UI and navigate to the 'Extensions' page
2. Use the three-dot menu in the upper right and select 'Manage Repositories'
3. Click `Create` to add the repository
4. Configure the repository:
    * **name**: rancher-ai-assistant-ui
    * **target**: http(s) URL to an index generated by Helm 
    * **index URL**: https://jp-gouin.github.io/rancher-ai-extension
5. Click `Create` 
6. Wait for the rancher-ai-extension repository status to be Active
7. Go back to the 'Extensions' page and select the 'Available' tab
8. Find the rancher-ai-extension card and click 'Install'
9. Select a version (or use the latest by default) and click 'Install'
10. Once the extension has finished installing, click the 'Reload' button that will appear at the top of the page.

To get started, navigate to the rancher-ai-extension icon (star) on the left panel.
